**目录：**

- [1. 介绍](#1-介绍)
  - [1.1. 符合性和错误处理](#11-符合性和错误处理)
  - [1.2. 语法记号](#12-语法记号)
- [2. 资源](#2-资源)
- [3. 表示](#3-表示)
  - [3.1. 元数据表示](#31-元数据表示)
    - [3.1.1. 处理表示数据](#311-处理表示数据)
      - [3.1.1.1. Media Type](#3111-media-type)
      - [3.1.1.2. Charset](#3112-charset)

# 1. 介绍

Each Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) message is either a request
or a response. A server listens on a connection for a request,
parses each message received, interprets the message semantics in
relation to the identified request target, and responds to that
request with one or more response messages. A client constructs
request messages to communicate specific intentions, examines
received responses to see if the intentions were carried out, and
determines how to interpret the results. This document defines
HTTP/1.1 request and response semantics in terms of the architecture
defined in [RFC7230].

HTTP provides a uniform interface for interacting with a resource
(Section 2), regardless of its type, nature, or implementation, via
the manipulation and transfer of representations (Section 3).

HTTP semantics include the intentions defined by each request method
(Section 4), extensions to those semantics that might be described in
request header fields (Section 5), the meaning of status codes to
indicate a machine-readable response (Section 6), and the meaning of
other control data and resource metadata that might be given in
response header fields (Section 7).

This document also defines representation metadata that describe how
a payload is intended to be interpreted by a recipient, the request
header fields that might influence content selection, and the various
selection algorithms that are collectively referred to as "content
negotiation" (Section 3.4).

## 1.1. 符合性和错误处理

本文档中的关键词 "必须"、"不得"、"需要"、"应当"、"不应当"、"应该"、"不应该"、"推荐"、"可以" 和 "可选" 应按照[RFC 2119]中的描述进行解释。

有关错误处理的符合性标准和注意事项在[RFC 7230] 第 2.5 节中定义。

## 1.2. 语法记号

This specification uses the Augmented Backus-Naur Form (ABNF)
notation of [RFC5234] with a list extension, defined in Section 7 of
[RFC7230], that allows for compact definition of comma-separated
lists using a ’#’ operator (similar to how the ’\*’ operator indicates
repetition). Appendix C describes rules imported from other
documents. Appendix D shows the collected grammar with all list
operators expanded to standard ABNF notation.

This specification uses the terms "character", "character encoding
scheme", "charset", and "protocol element" as they are defined in
[RFC6365].

# 2. 资源

The target of an HTTP request is called a "resource". HTTP does not
limit the nature of a resource; it merely defines an interface that
might be used to interact with resources. Each resource is
identified by a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI), as described in
Section 2.7 of [RFC7230].

When a client constructs an HTTP/1.1 request message, it sends the
target URI in one of various forms, as defined in (Section 5.3 of
[RFC7230]). When a request is received, the server reconstructs an
effective request URI for the target resource (Section 5.5 of
[RFC7230]).

One design goal of HTTP is to separate resource identification from
request semantics, which is made possible by vesting the request
semantics in the request method (Section 4) and a few
request-modifying header fields (Section 5). If there is a conflict
between the method semantics and any semantic implied by the URI
itself, as described in Section 4.2.1, the method semantics take
precedence.

# 3. 表示

Considering that a resource could be anything, and that the uniform
interface provided by HTTP is similar to a window through which one
can observe and act upon such a thing only through the communication
of messages to some independent actor on the other side, an
abstraction is needed to represent ("take the place of") the current
or desired state of that thing in our communications. That
abstraction is called a representation [REST].

For the purposes of HTTP, a "representation" is information that is
intended to reflect a past, current, or desired state of a given
resource, in a format that can be readily communicated via the
protocol, and that consists of a set of representation metadata and a
potentially unbounded stream of representation data.

An origin server might be provided with, or be capable of generating,
multiple representations that are each intended to reflect the
current state of a target resource. In such cases, some algorithm is
used by the origin server to select one of those representations as
most applicable to a given request, usually based on content
negotiation. This "selected representation" is used to provide the
data and metadata for evaluating conditional requests [RFC7232] and
constructing the payload for 200 (OK) and 304 (Not Modified)
responses to GET (Section 4.3.1).

## 3.1. 元数据表示

Representation header fields provide metadata about the
representation. When a message includes a payload body, the
representation header fields describe how to interpret the
representation data enclosed in the payload body. In a response to a
HEAD request, the representation header fields describe the
representation data that would have been enclosed in the payload body
if the same request had been a GET.

The following header fields convey representation metadata:

| 字段名           | 定义在     |
| ---------------- | ---------- |
| Content-Type     | 3.1.1.5 节 |
| Content-Encoding | 3.1.2.2 节 |
| Content-Language | 3.1.3.2 节 |
| Content-Location | 3.1.4.2 节 |

### 3.1.1. 处理表示数据

#### 3.1.1.1. Media Type

HTTP uses Internet media types [RFC2046] in the Content-Type
(Section 3.1.1.5) and Accept (Section 5.3.2) header fields in order
to provide open and extensible data typing and type negotiation.
Media types define both a data format and various processing models:
how to process that data in accordance with each context in which it
is received.

```
media-type = type "/" subtype *( OWS ";" OWS parameter )
type = token
subtype = token
```

The type/subtype MAY be followed by parameters in the form of
name=value pairs.

```
parameter = token "=" ( token / quoted-string )
```

The type, subtype, and parameter name tokens are case-insensitive.
Parameter values might or might not be case-sensitive, depending on
the semantics of the parameter name. The presence or absence of a
parameter might be significant to the processing of a media-type,
depending on its definition within the media type registry.

A parameter value that matches the token production can be
transmitted either as a token or within a quoted-string. The quoted
and unquoted values are equivalent. For example, the following
examples are all equivalent, but the first is preferred for
consistency:

```
text/html;charset=utf-8
text/html;charset=UTF-8
Text/HTML;Charset="utf-8"
text/html; charset="utf-8"
```

Internet media types ought to be registered with IANA according to
the procedures defined in [BCP13].

Note: Unlike some similar constructs in other header fields, media
type parameters do not allow whitespace (even "bad" whitespace)
around the "=" character.

#### 3.1.1.2. Charset
